All right we're making great progress.
I just finished my my weekly call it was four and a half hours today.
Today's week number 12 of my weekly called join me on my weekly calls every Thursday.
And just because I want to humbly help you grow your business follow it's every Thursday for free forever.
OK.
So now we're done with the cost of how to make this stuff.
Now we're in a deal with all of our expenses and a lot of companies will have it as sales and marketing
and then general administrative expenses.
But for us we're in a group at all in the one called s DNA sales general Ministry of expenses.
Some companies do this.
I want to simplify the process for you.
And so the expenses that we're going to do here below are not involved directly in making the product
but it's for running our company how to operate our company.
And that's why we call this part here operating expenses.
And later on we look at the ratio and actually let me take you there number over here we have that little
chart I created for you to scroll up will get there that we again get so gross margin was based on the
cost of goods sold.
We talked about right now we're going to look at operating expenses and we're eventually going to take
operating profit divided by revenue and operating margins involves not just the cost of producing the
good but also encompasses the operations expenses on a daily basis.
So make a lot more sense to you soon.
And then we're moving our way downwards in the bench who will move to the bottom of our income statement
called net profit margin.
Okay.
And all this stuff will be created for you automatically try this in the process.
So let's go back down to sales.
General and administrative.
And this year I named it for you.
So here input salaries for employees expenses.
So it doesn't matter where you are you can always click here and find out where you are.
Okay.
And I'm going to keep this really simple and I'm going to assume that our expense is $10000 per month
every single month for salaries.
So I'm just going to answer that in here if you wanted to you could you know at the bottom of the spreadsheet
had a couple of lines like the number of employees you have how much you pay them that sort of thing.
But don't keep this simple.
So let's say that it's $10000 a month.
And I'm doing Canadian dollars.
Whatever your currency is do whatever you want so I can go here.
And I'm just going to go on High-Speed now and put in 10000 for every single month just to put data
here.
Great.
Done.
OK.
All hypothetical of course.
I just want explain to you how these models work and you can skip this too if you already know how to
build out an income statement.
OK.
Moving down here if we had contractors or part timers we would enter in that data here and just notice
here that this is just the percent of total revenue 84 percent which is ridiculously high for us for
salaries but that will come down to percent of revenues here comes down a lot because our top line scoring
lots we got nice margin expansion and leverage in the model.
Now you will notice that.
Let's see our growth is not as great here gets worse it's because we had returns in those four months.
Hypothetically speaking we had a bunch of product returns and you can always just scroll up there in
this column and you'll see it there.
In this example all right.
So actually you can't see it because I'm doing this so I will scroll up and show you that case it's
going to go up here all the way up here and see what our returns were for that goggles product.
Here we go.
So here we got returns just for a couple of months or just because I want to show you the inventory
stuff.
Okay.
So we entered in the first line item and you'll see that these spark lines will be updating for you
as well right here as well and it's constant because it's 10000 every single month hapax being if I
made this $2 a year just for fun whatever happens here.
See there you go see the spark light update and then if you look all the way on the right the school
the all the way over the right you'll see the annual basis Sparke lines getting up to it as well.
Mike I showed you before.
Okay.
And if we had part timers or contractors we'd entered in there I would to keep this simple so I can
leave as is.
Benefits like if you.
I don't know.
Maybe you paid for their employee education for their kids or whatever it might be.
And usually this is zero until later when you grow the business or maybe you offer free coffee that
there if you want to then you got payroll taxes whatever the taxes are you would you would you would
enter it here and it all depends on what what country you're located in and you always have to talk
to a real account in your country when you file taxes anyway.
But you can find out what payroll taxes are.
And when I used to work on Market Street in the Tenderloin District in San Francisco payroll taxes we
got a big tax break because that wasn't an ISIS area.
And so their office equipment supplies and you could put it wherever you want here.
I was going to put in some dummy data so I'm going to assume it's 500 all the way over again.
I'll go up sorry about that.
Now you know what day it is copy and I get to go to High Speed Mode.
I'll come back and the cyclist is done.
Thanks great.
So we entered in office supplies.
I'll just do one more line I'm somewhere telecommunications you can enter and if you want to be as cheap
as possible you know you skype if you can accelerate.
All right.
Or whatsapp or whatever it is overseas travel entertainment.
If you you know if you travel make sure you keep all your receipts obviously and just put everything
into a bucket and give it to your account at the end of the year and say Here are my receipts please.
I mean tax breaks utilities if applicable.
If not leave everything empty marketing and advertising.
Let's say it's on two grand a month.
Hopes is 20 at INS.
Earlier I spoke about how to write content yourself and I want to be thought of as a thought leader.
OK so when you're creating content online that's free advertising for you.
And I want people to apps.
I want people think of you as the expert in the in that area that you're in right now.
So you're in a lot if you can on LinkedIn I explained resources on on how to do that before.
And then you're also if you want you can do YouTube videos that are Instagram's big now as well and
it changes a lot and follow people like Gary Vaynerchuk Gary V.
Just from on line.
He's really on top of what social media trends matter most he's better at that.
So just just follow him and Hila he'll help a lot if you follow him.
OK.
So now what I'm going to do is I'm just going to paste in that amount to give him mouth helps
how I copied the wrong one I don't care.
Going high speed won't get on the way it worked.
OK great advertising and marketing is done.
I spelt advertising with a z instead of an s it correct me.
Full disclosure always insurance if you want you can have there.
When you speak to a lawyer it's going to help you to register your company you can ask your lawyer about
insurance giving the employee insurance etc..
OK.
Legal fees as well you can put it there and I put in all stuff that I think you might have.
But I also gave you a bunch of other lines.
You can change you can even change these if you want to.
I recommend leaving them as is.
Because when I highlight watch happens up top says legal fees.
So they're just you know it's tag later on if you want to come back to that furniture if you rent whatever
automobile expenses.
You know some countries give you you can lease cars and get a tax deduction license fee that suffer
a car that's a license to run your company like financial services because you pay a fee.
Same thing with health care as well if they're regulated government markets postage fees employee education.
No bias there.
And here's my other.
OK.
And you can just type directly on top of this here.
On top of the blowsy is intact.
You can do whatever you want.
Here's what I recommend actually I can teach out to tag something.
So if you want you can say you're calling this I don't know Coca Cola expense.
I just look at my coke can that's why I thought it.
I'm very creative.
Then what you do is you do it highlight it and go here and you say Coke expense whatever.
Oh sorry it didn't work.
You can't put a space in between.
Coke and ice caps doing coke underscore expense.
And you can enter and that is done.
And whenever you want to go there you can just click here and scroll down.
Where was my coke expense again.
And it's right there.
Every company has a coke expense skit.
I mean it controls me to undo that again.
There you go.
It helps.
To me it seems there are no control that anyway.
So that's how you tagline you can do it if you tag I recommend that you keep it consistent with what
I've done.
So I recommend that you.
You call it financials inputs and then Coca-Cola expense after that or whatever it is.
No disrespect to Pepsi ok what's going on here and we're done actually with this.
Now we have all of our operating expenses.
And I just threw in a couple dummy lines a beta of data.
OK it's good to hear.
And we're done now with Junee.
That's it.
OK.
Now I I put R&D in here separately.
So our is usually a different line that's research and development.
And you want to talk to a local account please and a tax attorney where you get up and running.
That's because a lot of times you can actually get a lot of credits and tax deductions from your local
government depending on where you're located not just based in the country but where in the city you
are located.
Again speak with a lawyer please on this.
It's a worthwhile expense to hire a tax lawyer and an account to help you out because they will save
you a fortune.
Ok it's painful to pay it but you get the idea.
So R&D is going to make up a number I'm going to say it's 3000 every month to and I'm going to go on
my own copy this all the way across for R&D OK.
We are done with R&D and the spark lines up dramatically and the annual spark lines we go all the way
over here.
You'll see that it updates Whoops sorry a little bit more you can tag things here if you want or part
you can mark them as read if you're not.
And when I close all these if I click one there these will all be grouped together.
This is an annual spark change.
And so here we look at the annual charge and obviously we know that the annual expense is the same every
year the same every month.
Right and so it's unchanged on a percent basis.
The line here Blut is the percent change and here it drops obviously because you know it enter data
for those last couple of years.
Okay kickback back here escaped to make sure I highlighted 25 percent of revenue.
And then as always we look at percent of revenue month over month year over year changes and we look
for patterns in the data when your forecast in the future and everything becomes kind of a percent of
revenue longer term anyway.
That's why we do it that way.
I'm going to.
I don't think you're going to I don't think anybody taking this course or many people say what we'll
have depreciation expenses initially but you might if it's a very complex intensive business and you
know depreciation.
I label that separately because it's not a real cash expense.
Okay it's not like you don't lose money in your pocket and pay an expense for for depreciation.
It's just as I explained before it went over in the first lecture in this in the section what depreciation
does so what I'll do is I'll make it a thousand bucks.
I'll go in high speed mode and let's do this all the way and because it's going to change something
called Epatha and I'll explain what it is.
In a second.
High speed and now it's OK we don't want depreciation which was a non-tax expense or non-cash expense
Hauptman that means soon.
So everything we look at as a percentage of revenue obviously depreciation which I put a thousand bucks
per month.
Speaking is coming down as a percent of total revenue because revenue is growing but depreciation expense.